lay.
Please take your seats. Our event is
about to begin.
[music]
>> Hey
lays
excuse
Or would you Go fetus
glory
kicked into the cur.
It's better than
my name.
I got a fire in me. You're going to set
burn.
[music]
my nails.
Loose
go.
Hey,
hey, hey.
Heat. Heat.
Hey.
Hey. Hey.
Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah.
Natalie.
Hey,
hey,
hey.
Heat. Heat.
Ready,
Let's go.
Heat. Heat.
Heat.
>> [music]
>> Welcome to the stage, Nvidia founder and
CEO, Jensen Wong.
Hello, Las Vegas.
Happy New Year.
>> Welcome to CES.
Well, we have about 15 kilos worth of
material to pack in here. I'm so happy
to see all of you. You got 3,000 people
in this auditorium. There's 2,000 people
in a courtyard watching us. There's
another thousand people apparently in
the fourth floor where there were
supposed to be Nvidia show floors all
watching this keynote and of course
millions around the world are going to
be watching this to kick off this new
year. Well, every 10 to 15 years the
computer industry resets.
A new platform shift happens
from mainframe to PC, PC to internet,
internet to cloud, cloud to mobile. Each
time
the world of applications
target a new platform, that's why it's
called a platform shift. You write new
applications for a new computer.
Except this time
there are two simultaneous platform
shifts in fact happening at the same
time.
While we now move to AI, applications
are now going to be built on top of AI.
At first, people thought AIS are
applications. And in fact, AIs are
applications. But you're going to build
applications on top of AIS.
But in addition to that,
how you run the software, how you
develop the software
fundamentally changed. The entire
fabulary stack of the computer industry
is being reinvented.
You no longer program the software, you
train the software. You don't run it on
CPUs, you run it on GPUs.
And whereas applications were
pre-recorded, pre-ompiled
and run on your device, now applications
understand the context and generate
every single pixel, every single token
completely from scratch every single
time.
Computing has been fundamentally
reshaped as a result of accelerated
computing, as a result of artificial
intelligence. Every single layer of that
five layer cake is now being re
reinvented.
Well, what that means is some 10
trillion dollars or so of the last
decade of computing is now being
modernized to this new way of doing
computing. What that means is hundreds
of billions of dollars, a couple hundred
billion dollars in VC funding each year
is going into modernize and inventing
this new world. And what it means is a
hundred trillion dollars of industry,
several percent of which is R&D budget
is shifting over to artificial
intelligence. People ask where is the
money coming from? That's where the
money is coming from. the modernization
of AI to AI, the shifting of R&D budgets
from classical methods to now artificial
intelligence methods. Enormous amounts
of investments coming into this
industry, which explains why we're so
busy. And this last year was no
difference. This last year was
incredible.
This last year, there's a slide coming.
This is what happens when you don't
practice.
It's the first keynote of the year. I
hope it's your first keynote of the
year. Otherwise, you can been you have
been pretty pretty busy. This is our
first keynote of the year. We're going
to get the spiderwebs out. And so 2025
was an incredible year.
It's just see it seemed like everything
was happening all at the same time. And
it in fact it probably was. The first
thing of course is scaling loss.
In 2015,
the first language model that I thought
was really going to make a difference
made a huge difference. It was called
BERT. 2017, Transformers came. It wasn't
until 5 years later, 2022, that Chad GPT
moment happened and it awakened the
world to the possibilities of artificial
intelligence.
Something very important happened a year
after that.
The first 01 model from Chad GPT, the
first reasoning model, completely
revolutionary, invented this idea called
test time scaling, which is a very
common sense, common sensical thing. Not
only do we pre-train a model to learn,
we postrain it with our re reinforcement
learning so that it could learn skills.
And now we also have test time scaling,
which is another way of saying thinking.
You think in real time. Each one of
these phases of artificial intelligence
requires enormous amount of compute and
the computing law continued to scale.
Large language models continue to get
better. Meanwhile, another breakthrough
happened and this breakthrough happened
in 2024.
Agentic systems started to emerge in
2025. It started to pervase to to uh
proliferate just about everywhere.
Agentic models that have the ability to
reason,
look up information, do research, use
tools, plan futures, simulate outcomes.
All of a sudden started to solve very
very important problems. One of my
favorite Agentic models is called cursor
which revolutionized the way we do
software programming at NVIDIA. Agentic
systems are going to really take off
from here. Of course, there were other
types of AI. We know that large language
models isn't the only type of
information. Wherever the universe has
information, wherever the universe has
structure, we could teach a large
language model a form of language model
to go understand that information to
understand its representation and to
turn that into an AI. One of the biggest
most important one is physical AI. AI
that understand the laws of nature. And
then of course physical AI is about AI's
interacting with the world but the world
itself has information encoded
information and that's called AI
physics. AI that in the case of physical
AI you have AI that interacts with the
physical world and you have AI physics
AI that understands the laws of physics.
And then lastly one of the most
important things that happened last year
the advancement of open models. We can
now know that AI is going to proliferate
everywhere when open source when open
innovation when innovation across every
single company and every industry around
the world is activated. At the same
time, open models really took off last
year. In fact,
last year we saw the advance of DeepSeek
R1, the first open model that's a
reasoning system. It caught the world by
surprise and it activated literally this
entire movement. Really, really exciting
work. We're so happy with it. Now we
have openings open model systems all
over the world of all different kinds
and we now know that open models have
also reached the frontier. still solidly
is six months behind the frontier models
but every single six months a new model
is emerging and these models are getting
smarter and smarter because of that you
could see the number of downloads has
exploded
the number of downloads is growing so
fast because startups want to
participate in the AI revolution large
companies want to researchers want to
students want to just about every single
country wants
How is it possible that intelligence,
the digital form of intelligence will
leave anyone behind? And so open models
has really revolutionized artificial
intelligence last year. This entire
industry is going to be reshaped as a
result of that. Now, we had this inkling
some time ago. You might have heard that
several years ago, we started to build
and operate our own AI supercomputers.
We call them DGX clouds. A lot of people
asked, are you going to in going into
the cloud business? The answer is no.
We're building these DGX supercomputers
for our own use. Well, it turns out we
have billions of dollars of
supercomputers in operation so that we
could develop our open models. I am so
pleased with the work that we're doing.
It is starting to attract attention all
over the world and all over the
industries because we are doing frontier
AI model work in so many different
domains. The work that we did in
proteins in digital biology. La protina
to be able to synthesize and generate
proteins. Open fold 3 to understand the
understand the structure of proteins.
[snorts] EVO 2 how to understand and
generate
multiple proteins otherwise the
beginnings of cellular cellular
representation. Earth 2 AI that
understands laws of physics. The work
that we did with forecast net, the work
that we did with Cordiff really
revolutionized the way that people are
doing weather prediction. Neotron,
we've now doing groundbreaking work
there. The first hybrid transformer SSM
model that's incredibly fast can and
therefore can think for a very long time
or can think very quickly with that for
not a very long time and produce very
very smart intelligent answers.
Neimotron 3 is groundbreaking work and
you can expect us to deliver other
versions of Neimotron 3 in the near
future. Cosmos
a frontier open world foundation model
one that understand how the world works.
Groot a humanoid robotic system
articulation mobility locomotion. These
models, these technologies are now being
integrated and in the each one of these
cases open to the world. Frontier human
and robotics models open to the world.
And then today we're going to talk a
little bit about Alpamo, the work that
we've been doing in self-driving cars.
Not only do we open source the models,
we also open source the data that we use
to train those models because that in
that way only in that way can you truly
trust how the models came to be. We open
source all the models. We help you make
derivatives from them. We have a whole
suite of libraries we call the Nemo
libraries, physics li physics Nemo
libraries and the clarono libraries.
Each biono libraries each one of these
libraries are life cycle management
systems of AIS so that you could process
the data you could generate data you
could train the model you could create
the model evaluate the model guardrail
the model all the way to deploying the
model each one of these libraries are
incredibly complex and all of it is open
sourced and so now on top of this
platform NVIDIA is a frontier AI model
builder and we build it in a very
special way we build it completely in
the open so that we can enable every
company, every industry, every country
to be part of this AI revolution. I'm
incredibly proud of the work that we're
doing there. In fact, if you notice the
the charts, the chart shows that our
contribution to this industry is bar
none and you're going to see us in fact
continue to do that if not accelerate.
These models are also world class.
All systems are down.
This never happens in Santa Clara.
Is it because of Las Vegas?
Somebody must have went won a jackpot
outside.
[clears throat] All systems are down.
Okay, I think my system's still down,
but that's okay. I I I've I make it up
as I go. And so so uh not only are these
models uh frontier capable, not only are
they open, they're also top the
leaderboards. This is an area where
we're very proud. They top leaderboards
in intelligence. Uh we have uh uh
important models that understand
multimodality documents, otherwise known
as PDFs. The most valuable content in
the world are captured in PDFs, but
there it takes artificial intelligence
to find out what's inside, interpret
what's inside, and help you read it. And
so our PDF retrievers, our PDF parsers
are worldclass.
Our speech recognition models absolutely
worldclass. Our retrieval models,
basically search, semantic search, AI
search, the database engine of the
modern AI era, worldclass. So, we're on
top of leaderboards constantly. This is
an area we're very proud of. And all of
that is in service of your ability to
build AI agents. This is really a
groundbreaking area of development. You
know, at first when pe when chat GPT
came out, people said, you know, uh
gosh, it it produced really interesting
results, but it hallucinated greatly.
And the reason why it hallucinated, of
course, it could memorize everything um
in the past, but it can't memorize
everything in the future, in the
current. And so it needs to be grounded
in research. It has to do fundamental
research before it answers a question.
The ability to reason about do I have to
do research? Do I have to use tools? How
do I break up a problem into steps? Each
one of these steps something that that
the AI model knows how to do. And
together it is able to compose it into a
sequence of steps to perform something
it's never done before, never been
trained to do. This is the wonderful
capability of reasoning. We could we
could be we can encounter a circumstance
we've never seen before and break it
down into circumstances and knowledge or
rules that we know how to do because
we've experienced it in the past. And so
the ability for AI models now to be able
to reason incredibly powerful.
The reasoning capability of agents open
the doors to all of these different
applications. We no longer have to train
an AI model to know everything on day
one. Just as we don't have to know
everything on day one that we should be
able to in every circumstance reason
about how to solve that problem. Large
language models has now made this
fundamental leap. The ability to use
reinforcement learning and chain of
thought and you know search and planning
and all these different techniques in
reinforcement learning has made it
possible for us to have this basic
capability and is also now completely
open sourced. But the thing that's
really terrific is another breakthrough
that happened and the first time I saw
it was with Arvin's perplexity.
Perplexity, the search company, the AI
search company, really f really
innovative company. And the first time I
realized they were using multiple models
at the same time, I thought it was
completely genius. Of course, we would
do that. Of course, an AI would also
call upon all of the world's great AIs
to solve the problem it wants to solve
at any part of the reasoning chain. And
this is the reason why AIs are really
multi-modal
meaning they understand speech and
images and text and videos and 3D
graphics and proteins. It's multimodal.
It's also multi-model
meaning that it should be able to use
any model that best fits the task. It is
multicloud by definition. Therefore,
because these AI models are sitting in
all these different places and it also
is hybrid cloud because if you're an
enterprise company or you've built a
robot or whatever that device is,
sometimes it's at the edge, sometimes a
radio cell tower, maybe sometimes it's
in an enterprise or maybe it's a place
where a hospital where you need to have
the the data in real time right next to
you. Whatever those applications are, we
know now this is what an AI application
looks like in the future. Or another way
to think about that because future
applications are built on AIS.
This is the basic framework of future
applications.
This basic framework, this basic
structure of agentic AIs that could do
the things that I'm talking about that
is multi-model
has now turbocharged
AI startups of all kinds. And now you
can also because of all of the open
models and all the tools that we
provided you, you could also customize
your AIs to teach your AI skills that
nobody else is teaching. Nobody else is
causing their AI to become intelligent
or smart in that way. You could do it
for yourself. And that's the work that
we do with Neimotron, Nemo, and all of
the things that we do with open models
is intended to do. You put a smart
router in front of it. And that router
is essentially a manager that decides
which one of the task based on the
intention of the prompts that you give
it, which one of the models is best fit
for that application for that solving
that problem. Okay. So now when you
think about this architecture, what do
you have?
When you think about this architecture,
all of a sudden you have an AI that's on
the one hand completely customizable by
you. Something that you could teach to
do your own very skills for your
company, something that's domain secret,
something where you have deep domain
expertise. Maybe you've got all of the
data that you need to train that AI
model. On the other hand, your AI is
always at the frontier by definition.
You're always at the frontier on the one
hand. You're always customized. On the
other hand, it should just run. And so
we thought we would make the simplest of
examples to make it available to you.
This entire framework we call a
blueprint and we have blueprints that
are integrated into enterprise SAS
platforms all over the world and we're
really pleased with the progress. But
what we do is show you a a short example
of something that anybody can do.
Let's build a personal assistant.
I wanted to help me with my calendar,
emails, [music] to-do lists, and even
keep an eye on my home. I use Brev to
turn my DGX Spark into a personal cloud.
So, I can use the same interface whether
I'm using a cloud GPU or a DGX Spark. I
use a Frontier model API to easily get
started. [music]
I want him to help me with my emails.
So, I create an email tool for my agent
to call.
I want my emails to stay private. So,
I'll add an open model that's running
locally on the Spark.
Now, for any job, [music] I want the
agent to use the right model for the
right task. So, I'll use an intentbased
model router.
This way, prompts that need email will
stay on my Spark, and everything else
can call the Frontier model. I want my
assistant to interact with my world, so
I'll hook it up to Hugging Faces Reachi
mini robot.
My agent controls the head, ears, and
camera of the Reichi with tool calls. I
want to give Richi a voice, and I really
like 11 Labs, so I'll hook up their API.
>> Hi, I'm Richi running on DGX Spark.
[music]
>> Hey Richi, what's on my to-do list
today?
your to-do list today.
Grab groceries, eggs, milk, butter, and
send Jensen the new script.
>> Okay, let's send Jensen an update. Tell
him we'll have it for him by the end of
the day.
>> We'll do.
>> Richi, there's a sketch, too. Can you
turn it into an architectural rendering?
>> Sure.
>> Nice. Now make a video and show me
around the room.
>> Here you go.
>> That's great.
>> With Brev, I can share access to my
Spark and Reachi, so I'm going to share
it with Anna.
>> Hey Richi, what's Potato up to?
>> He's on the couch.
I remember you don't like this. I'll
tell him to get off. Potato, off the
couch.
With all the progress in open source,
it's incredible to see what you can
build. I'd love to see what you create.
>> Isn't that incredible?
Now, the amazing thing is that is
utterly trivial now. That is utterly
trivial now. And yet, just a couple
years ago, all of that would have been
impossible. Absolutely unimaginable.
Well, this basic framework, this basic
way of building applications using
language models
using language models
[clears throat] using language models
using language models that are
pre-trained and they're proprietary.
They're frontier. combine it with
customized language models into a aentic
framework, a reasoning framework that
allows you to access tools and files and
maybe even connect to other agents.
This is basically the architecture of AI
applications or applications in the
modern age and the ability for us to
create these applications are incredibly
fast. And notice
if you give it this application um
information that it's never seen before
or in a structure that has is not
represented exactly as you thought it
can still reason through it and make it
best effort to reason through the data
the information to try to understand how
to solve the problem artificial
intelligence. Okay. Okay, so this basic
framework is now being integrated and
everything that I just described, we had
the benefit of working with some of the
world's leading enterprise platform
companies. Uh, Palunteer for example
um their their entire AI and data
processing platform is being integrated
accelerated by Nvidia today. Service Now
the world's leading customer service and
um employee service platform. Snowflake
the world's top data platform in the
cloud. Uh, incredible work that that is
being done there. Uh, Code Rabbit, we're
using Code Rabbit all over Nvidia. Uh,
Crowdstrike creating AIS to detect to
find AI threats. Uh, NetApp, their AI,
their data platform now has NVIDIA's
semantic AI on top of it and agentic
systems on top of it uh to for uh for
them to do customer service. But the
important thing is this. Not only is
this the way that you develop
applications now, this is going to be
the user interface of your platform. So
whether it's Palanteer or Service Now or
Snowflake and many other companies that
we're working with, the agentic system
is the interface. It's no longer Excel
with a bunch of, you know, squares that
you enter enter information into. Maybe
it's no longer could just command line.
the any all of that multimodality
information is now possible and the way
you interact with your platform is much
more well if you will simple like you're
interacting with people and so that's
enterprise AI being revolutionized by
angentic systems the next thing is
physical AI this is an area that you've
seen me talk about for several years in
fact we've been working on this for
eight years the question is how do you
take something that is intelligent
inside a computer and interacts with you
with screens and speakers to something
that can interact with the world.
Meaning it can understand the common
sense of how the world works. Object
permanence. If I look away and I look
back, that object is still there. Um
causality. If I push it, it tips over.
It understands friction and gravity. It
understands inertia. that a heavy truck
rolling down the road is going to need a
little bit more time to stop, that a
ball is going to keep on rolling.
These ideas are common sense to even a
little child, but for AI, it's
completely unknown. And so we have to
create a system that allows AIS to learn
the the common sense of the physical
world, learn its laws, but also to be
able to of course learn from data and
the data is quite scarce and to be able
to evaluate whether that AI is working,
meaning it has to simulate in an
environment. How does an AI know that
the the actions that it's performing is
consistent with what it should do if it
doesn't have the ability to simulate the
response of the physical world back on
its actions. The response of its actions
is really important to simulate
otherwise there's no way to evaluate it.
It's different every time. And so this
basic system requires three computers.
One computer of course the one that we
know that Nvidia builds for training the
AI models. Another computer that we know
is to inference the computer. Inference
the models. Inferencing the model is
essentially a robotics computer that
runs in a car or runs in a robot or runs
in a factory, runs anywhere at the edge.
But there has to be another computer
that's designed for simulation and
simulation is at the heart of almost
everything Nvidia does. This is this is
where we are most comfortable and
simulation was really the foundations of
almost everything that we've done with
physical AI. So we have three computers
and multiple stacks that run on these
computers, these libraries to make them
useful. Omniverse is our digital twin
physically based simulation world.
Cosmos as I mentioned earlier is our
foundation model not a foundation model
for language but a foundation model of
the world.
and is also aligned with language. You
could say something like, you know,
what's happening to the ball and they'll
they'll tell you the ball's rolling down
the street. And so a world foundation
model and then of course the robotics
models. We have two of them. One of them
is called Groot. The other one's called
Alpamo that I'm going to tell you about.
Now the one of the most important things
that we have to do with physical AI is
to create the data to train the AI in
the first place. Where does that data
come from? rather than instead of having
languages because we created a bunch of
texts that are what we consider ground
truth that the AI can learn from. How do
we teach an AI the ground truth of
physics? There lots and lots of videos,
lots and lots of videos, but hardly
enough to capture the diversity and the
type of interactions that we need. And
so this is where great minds came
together and transformed
what used to be compute into data. Now
using synthetic data generation that is
grounded and conditioned by the laws of
physics, grounded and conditioned by
ground truth, we can now selectively
cleverly generate data that we can then
use to train the AI. So for example,
what comes into this AI, this Cosmos AI
world model on the left on over here is
the output of a traffic simulator.
Now this traffic simulator
is hardly enough for an AI to learn
from. We can take this, put it into a
Cosmos foundation model and generate
surround video that is physically based
and physically plausible that the AI can
now learn from. And there are so many
examples of this. Let me show you what
Cosmos can do.
The chat GPT moment for physical AI is
nearly here, but the challenge is clear.
The physical world is diverse and
unpredictable.
Collecting real world training data is
slow and costly and it's never enough.
The answer is synthetic data. It starts
with NVIDIA Cosmos, an open Frontier
World Foundation model for physical AI
pre-trained on internet scale video,
real driving and robotics data, and 3D
[music] simulation.
Cosmos learned a unified representation
of the world, able to align language,
images, 3D, and action.
It performs physical AI skills like
generation, reasoning, and trajectory
prediction
from a single image. Cosmos generates
realistic video
from 3D scene descriptions, physically
coherent motion,
from driving telemetry and sensor logs,
surround video
from planning simulators,
multi- camera environments,
or from scenario prompts. It brings edge
cases to life.
Developers can run interactive closed
loop simulations in Cosmos. When actions
are made, the world responds.
Cosmos reasons.
It analyzes edge scenarios,
breaks them down into familiar physical
interactions, and [music] reasons about
what could happen next.
Cosmos turns compute [music] into data,
training AVs for the longtail and robots
how to adapt for every scenario.
I know it's incredible.
Cosmos is the world's leading foundation
model. World foundation model. It's been
downloaded millions of times, used all
over the world, getting world getting
the world ready for this new era of
physical AI. We use it ourselves as
well. We use it ourselves to create our
self-driving car,
using it for scenario generation and
using it for evaluation.
We could have something that allows us
to effectively travel billions,
trillions of miles, but doing it inside
a computer. And we've made enormous
progress. Today, we're announcing Alpio,
the world's first
thinking reasoning autonomous vehicle
AI. Alpo is trained end to end.
Literally from camera in to actuation
out. The camera in lots and lots of
miles that are driven by itself
where human drive it dri using human
demonstration
and we have lots and lots of miles that
are generated by cosmos. In addition to
that, hundreds of thousands of examples
are labeled very, very carefully so that
we could teach the car how to drive.
Alpha Mayo does something that's really
special. Not only does it take sensor
input and activates steering wheel,
brakes, and and acceleration, it also
reasons about what action it is about to
take. It tells you what action it's
going to take. the reason by which it
came about that action and then of
course the trajectory.
All of these are coupled directly and
trained very specifically by a large
combination of human trained and as well
as Cosmos generated data. The result of
it is just really incredible. Not only
does your car drive as you would expect
it to drive and it drives so naturally
because it learned directly from human
demonstrators but in every single
scenario when it comes up to the
scenario it reasons about it tells you
what it's going to do and it reasons
about what you what's about to do. Now
the reason why this is so important is
because of the long tale of driving
there. It's impossible for us to simply
collect every single possible scenario
for everything that could ever happen in
every single country in every single
circumstance that's possibly ever going
to happen for all the population.
However, it is very unlikely is very
likely that every scenario if decomposed
into a whole bunch of other smaller
scenarios are quite normal for you to
understand. And so these long tails will
be decomposed into quite normal
circumstances that the card knows how to
deal with. It just needs to reason about
it. And so let's take a look. Everything
you're about to see is one shot. It's a
no hands.
>> Routing to your destination.
Buckle up.
Heat. Heat.
Hallelujah.
Heat.
You have arrived.
>> [applause]
>> We started working on self-driving cars
eight years ago. And the reason for that
is because we reasoned early on that
deep learning and artificial
intelligence was going to reinvent the
entire computing stack. And if we were
ever going to understand how to navigate
ourselves and how to guide the industry
towards this new future, we have to get
good at building the entire stack. Well,
as I mentioned earlier, AI is a five
layer cake. The lowest layer is land
power and shell. In the case of
robotics, the lowest layer is the car.
The next layer above it is chips, GPUs,
networking chips, CPUs, all that kind of
stuff. The next layer above that is the
infrastructure.
That infrastructure in this particular
case as I mentioned with physical AI is
omniverse and cosmos.
And then above that are the models. And
in the case of the models above that I
just shown you,
the model here is called Alpha Mayo. And
Alpha Mayo today is open sourced. We
this incredible body of work. It took
several thousand people. Our AV team is
several thousand people. Just to put in
perspective, our partner uh Ola, I think
Ola's here in the audience somewhere.
Uh, Mercedes agreed to partner with us
five years ago to go make all of this
possible. We imagine that someday a
billion cars on the road will all be
autonomous. You could either have it be
a robo taxi that you're you're
you'rechestrating
and and renting from somebody or you
could own it and is driving for driving
by itself or you could decide to drive
for yourself and so but every single car
will have autonomous vehicle capability.
every single car will be AI powered. And
so the the the model layer in this case
is Alpha Mayo and the application above
that is the Mercedes-Benz.
Okay. And so, so this entire stack is
our first Nvidia first entire stack
endeavor and we've been working on it
for this entire time and I'm just so
happy that the first AV car from Nvidia
is going to be on the road in Q1 and
then it goes Europe in Q2 here in the
United States in Q1 then Europe in Q2
and I think it's Asia in Q3 and Q4 and
the powerful thing is that we're going
to keep on updating it with next ver
next versions of Alpa Mayo and versions
after that. There's no question in my
mind now that this is going to be one of
the largest robotics industries and I'm
so happy that we worked on it and it
taught us enormous amount about how to
help the rest of the world build robotic
systems. That deep understanding in
knowing how to build it ourselves,
building the entire infrastructure
ourselves and knowing what kind of chips
a robotic system would would need. In
this partic particular case, dual Orins,
the next generation dual Thors. These
processors are designed for robotic
systems and was designed for the sa
highest level of safety capability. This
car just got rated. It just went to
production. The Mercedes-Benz CLA was
just rated by NCAAP, the world's safest
car.
>> [applause]
>> It is the only system that I know that
has every single line of code, the chip,
the system, every line of code safety
certified. The entire model system is
based on a sensors are diverse and
redundant and so is the self-driving car
stack. The Alpha Mayo stack is trained
end to end and has incredible skills.
However, nobody knows until you drive it
forever that it's going to be perfectly
safe. And so that we the way we guard
rail that is with another software
stack, an entire AV stack underneath.
That entire AV stack is built to be
fully traceable and it's taken us some
five years to build that some six, seven
years actually to build that second
stack. These two software stacks are
mirroring each other and then we have a
policy and safety evaluator to decide is
this something that I'm very confident
and can reason about driving very
safely. If so, I'm going to have Alpamo
do it. If it's a circumstance that I'm
not very confident in and the safety um
policy evaluator decide that we're going
to go back to a a very a simpler, safer
guard rail system, then it goes back to
the classical AV stack. We're the only
car in the world with both of these AV
stacks running and all safety systems
should have diversity and redundancy.
Well, our vision is that someday every
single car, every single truck will be
autonomous. And we've been working
towards that future. This entire stack
is vertically integrated. Of course, in
the case of Mercedes-Benz, we built the
entire stack together. We're going to
deploy the car. We're going to operate
the stack. We're going to maintain the
stack for as long as we shall live.
However, like everything else we do as a
company, we build the entire stack, but
the entire stack is open for the
ecosystem. And these the ecosystem
working with us to build L4 and robo
taxis is expanding and it's going
everywhere.
I fully expect this to be well this is
already a giant business for us. It's a
giant business for us because they use
it for training our training data,
processing data and training their
models. They use it for synthetic data
generation in some cases. In some car,
in some companies, they pretty much just
build uh the computers, the chips that
are inside the car. And some companies
work with us full stack. Some companies
work with us some partial part of that.
Okay? So, it doesn't matter uh how much
you decide to use. You know, my only
request is use a little bit of video
wherever you can and uh you know, but uh
the entire thing is open. Now this is
going to be the first largecale
mainstream
um AI physical AI market and this is now
I think we can all agree fully here and
this inflection point of going from not
autonomous vehicles to autonomous
vehicles is probably happening right
about this time in in the next 10 years
I'm fairly certain a very very large
percentage of the world's cars will be
autonomous or highly autonomous but this
This basic technique that I just
described in using the three computers
using synthetic data generation and
simulation applies to every form of
robotic systems. It could be a robot
that is just an articulator, a
manipulator, maybe it's a mobile robot,
maybe it's a fully humanoid robot. And
so the next journey,
the next era for robotic systems is
going to be, you know, robots. And these
robots are going to come in all kinds of
different sizes and and uh I invited
some friends. Did they come?
>> Hey guys,
hurry up. I got a lot of stuff to cover.
>> Come on, hurry.
Did you tell R2-D2 you were going to be
here?
>> Did you? And C3PO.
Okay. All right. Come here. Before now,
one of the things that one of the things
that's really You have Jetson's. They
have little Jetson computers inside
them. They're trained inside Omniverse.
And how about this? Let's show everybody
the simulator that you were that you
guys learned how to how to be robots in.
You you guys want to look at that?
>> Okay, let's look at that. Run it,
please.
See,
Okay.
Isn't that amazing?
That's how you learn to be a robot. You
did it all inside Omniverse. And the
robot simulator is called Isaac. Isaac
Sim and Isaac Lab. And anybody who wants
to build a robot, you know, nobody could
nobody's going to be as cute as you.
But now we have all look at all these
look at all these friends that we have
building robots. We have we're building
big ones. No, like I said, nobody's as
cute as you guys are. But we have
Neurobot and we have we have Aubot.
Aubot over there, you know. We have uh
LG over here. They just announced a new
robot, Caterpillar. They've got the
largest robots ever. That one delivers
food to your house. That's connected to
Uber Eats. And that's Surf Robot. I love
those guys. Agility, Boston Dynamics,
incredible. You got surgical robots, you
got manipulator robots from Franka,
you got universal robotics robot,
incredible number of different robots.
And so this is the next chapter. We're
going to talk a lot more about robotics
in the future, but it's not just about
the robots in the end. I know
everything's about you guys. It's about
getting there. And one of the air one of
the most important industries in the
world that will be revolutionized by
physical AI and AI physics
is the industry that started all of us
at NVIDIA. It wouldn't be possible if
not for the companies that I'm about to
talk to. And I'm so happy that all of
them starting with Cadence is going to
accelerate everything. Cadence CUDA X
integrated into all of their simulations
and solvers. They've got uh Nvidia
physical physical AIs that they're going
to use for uh for different um physical
plants and plant simulations. You got AI
physics being integrated into these
systems. So whether it's an EDA or STA
um and in the future robotic systems,
we're going to have basically the same
technology that made you guys possible
now completely revolutionize these
design stacks. Synopsis without synopsis
you know synopsis and cadence are
completely completely indispensable in
the world of chip design. Synopsis is uh
leads in uh and uh logic design and and
IP uh in the case of cadence they lead
physical design the place and route uh
and emulation and verification. Cadence
is incredible at emulation and
verification. Both of them are moving
into the world of system design and
system simulation. And so in the future,
we're going to design your chips inside
Cadence and inside Synopsis. We're going
to design your systems and emulate the
whole thing and simulate everything
inside these tools. That's your future.
We're going to give Yeah, you're going
to be born inside these inside these
platforms. Pretty amazing, right? And so
we're so happy that we're working with
these these industries just as we've
integrated NVIDIA into Palunteer and
Service Now we're integrating NVIDIA
into the most computationally intensive
simulation industries synopsis and
cadence. And today we're announcing that
Seammens is also doing the same thing.
We're going to integrate CUDA X physical
AI agentic AI neo neotron deeply
integrated into the world of seammens.
And the reason for that is this. First,
we designed the chips
and all of it in the future will be
accelerated by Nvidia. You're going to
be very happy about that. We're going to
have Agentic chip designers and system
designers working with us, helping us do
design just as we have agentic software
engineers helping our software engineers
code today. And so, we'll have agentic
chip designers and system designers.
We're going to create you inside this.
But then we have to build you. We have
to build the plants, the factories that
make manufacture you. We have to design
the manufacturing lines that assemble
all of you. And these manufacturing
plants are going to be essentially
gigantic robots. Incredible, isn't that
right?
I know. I know. And so you're going to
be designed in a computer. You're going
to be made in a computer. You're gonna
be tested and evaluated in a computer
long before long before you have to
spend any time dealing with gravity.
I know.
Do you know how to deal with gravity?
Can you jump?
>> [laughter]
>> Okay. All right. Don't show off. Okay.
So, so this so now
the industry the industry that made
Nvidia possible, we're I'm just so happy
that that now the technology that we're
creating is at a level of sophistication
and capability that we can now help them
revolutionize their industry. And so
what started with with uh with them, we
now have the opportunity to go back and
and help them revolutionize theirs.
Let's take a look at the stuff that
we're going to do with Semens.
Come on.
Breakthroughs in physical AI are letting
AI move from screens to our physical
world.
And just in time, as the world builds
factories of every kind for chips,
computers, life-saving drugs, and AI, as
the global labor shortage worsens, we
need automation powered [music] by
physical AI and robotics more than ever.
This, where AI meets the world's largest
physical industries, is the foundation
of NVIDIA and Seaman's partnership. For
nearly two centuries, Seammens has built
the world's industries.
And now [music] it is reinventing it for
the age of AI.
Seammens is integrating NVIDIA CUDA X
libraries, AI models, and Omniverse
into its portfolio of EDA,
CAE,
and digital [music] twin tools and
platforms.
Together, we're bringing physical AI to
the full industrial life cycle.
From design and simulation
to production
and operations,
we stand at the beginning of a new
industrial revolution, the age of
physical AI built by Nvidia and Seammens
for the next age of industries.
Incredible, right guys?
What do you think? All right, I'll hang
on tight. Just hang on tight. And so so
this is, you know, if you look at look
at the world's models, there's no
question OpenAI is the the the leading
token generator today. More to more open
AAI tokens are generated than just about
anything else. The second largest group,
the second largest is probably open
models. And my guess is that over time
because there are so many companies, so
many researchers, so many different
types of domains and modalities that
open-source models will be by far the
largest. Let's talk about somebody
really special. You guys want to do
that? Let's talk about Vera Rubin.
Vera Rubin. Yeah, go ahead. She's a
American astronomer.
She was the first to observe. She
noticed that the tails of the galaxies
were moving about as fast
as the center of the galaxies. Well, I
know it makes no sense. It makes no
sense. Newtonian physics would say just
like the solar system, the planets
further away from the sun is circulating
circ cir circling the sun slower than
the planets closer to the sun. And
therefore it makes no sense that this
happens unless there's
invisible bodies we call them she
discovered dark body dark matter um that
occupies space even though we don't see
it and so Vera Rubin is the person that
we named our next computer after. Isn't
that a good idea?
I know.
Okay. Okay, Vera Rubin is designed to
address this fundamental challenge that
we have. The amount of computation
necessary for AI is skyrocketing. The
demand for NVIDIA GPUs is skyrocketing.
It's skyrocketing because models are
increasing by a factor of 10, an order
of a magnitude every single year. And
not to mention, as I mentioned, 01's
introduction was an inflection point for
AI. Instead of a oneshot answer,
inference is now a thinking process. And
in order to teach the AI how to think,
reinforcement learning and very
significant computation was introduced
into post training. It wasn't no long
it's no longer supervised fine-tuning or
otherwise known as imitation learning or
supervision training.
You now have reinforcement learning.
Essentially the computer trial it trying
different iterations itself learning how
to perform a task. The amount of
computation for pre pre-training for
post- training for test time scaling has
exploded as a result of that. And now
every single inference that we do
instead of just one shot the number of
tokens you can just see the AI think
which we appreciate. The longer it
thinks oftentimes it produces a better
answer. And so test time scaling causes
the number of tokens to be generated to
increase by 5x every single year. Not to
mention,
meanwhile, the race is on for AI.
Everybody's trying to get to the next
level. Everybody's trying to get to the
next frontier. And every time they get
to the next frontier, the last
generation AI tokens, the cost starts to
starts to decline about a factor of 10x
every year. The 10x decline every year
is actually telling you something
different. It's saying that the race is
so intense. Everybody's trying to get to
the next level and somebody is getting
to the next level. And so therefore, all
of it is a computing problem. The faster
you compute, the sooner you can get to
the next level of the next frontier. All
of these things are simultaneously
happening at the same time. And so we
decided that we have to advance
the state-of-the-art of computation
every single year. Not one year left
behind. And now we've been shipping
GB200s
year and a half ago. Right now we're in
fullscale manufacturing of GB300.
And if Vera Rubin is going to be in time
for this year, it must be in production
by now. And so today I can tell you that
Vera Rubin is in full production.
You guys want to take a look at Vera
Rubin?
>> All right. Come on.
>> Play it, please.
Vera Rubin arrives just in time for the
next frontier of AI.
This is [music] the story of how we
built it. The architecture, a system of
six chips [music] engineered to work as
one, born from extreme code design. It
begins with Vera, [music] a
custom-designed CPU, double the
performance of the previous generation.
And the Reuben GPU, Vera and Reuben are
co-designed from the [music] start to
birectionally and coherently share data
faster and with lower latency.
Then 17,000 components come together on
a Ver Rubin compute board.
High-speed robots place components with
micro precision before the Vera CPU and
two Reuben GPUs complete the assembly.
Capable of delivering 100 pedlops of AI,
five times that of its predecessor.
AI needs data fast.
Connect X9 delivers 1.6 6 terabts per
second of scale out bandwidth to each
GPU.
Bluefield 4 DPU offloads storage and
security [music] so compute stays fully
focused on AI.
The Vera Rubin compute tray completely
redesigned with no cables, hoses, or
fans. Featuring a Bluefield 4 DPU, eight
Connect X9 Nix, two Vera CPUs, and four
Reuben GPUs. The compute building block
of the Vera Rubin AI supercomput.
Next, the sixth generation MVLink
switch. Moving more data than the global
internet, connecting 18 compute nodes,
scaling up to 72 Reuben GPUs, operating
as one.
Then Spectrum X Ethernet Photonix,
the world's first Ethernet [music]
switch with 512 lanes and 200 Gbit
capable co-packaged optics scale out
thousands of racks into an AI factory.
15,000 engineer years since design
began, the first Vera Rubin MVL 72
[music] rack comes online. Six
breakthrough chips, 18 compute trades,
nine MVLink switch trays, 220 trillion
transistors weighing nearly two tons.
One giant leap to the next frontier of
AI.
Reuben is here.
What do you guys think?
This is a Reuben pod. 1152 GPUs
in 16 racks. Each one of the racks, as
you know, has 72
Vera Rubin or 72 Reubins. Each one of
the Reubins is two actual GPU dies
connected together. I'm going to show
I'm going to show it to you, but there
are several things that Well, I'll tell
you later.
I can't tell you everything right away.
Well, we designed six different chips.
First of all, we have a rule inside our
company and it's a good rule. No new
generation should have more than one or
two chips change. But the problem is
this. As you could see, we were
describing the total number of
transistors in each one of the chips
that were being described. And we know
that Moore's law has largely slowed. And
so, the number of transistors we can get
year after year after year can't
possibly keep up with the 10 times
larger models. It can't possibly keep up
with five times per year more tokens
generated. It can't possibly keep up
with the fact that
cost decline of the tokens are going to
be so aggressive. It is impossible to
keep up with those kind of rates if the
indust for the industry to continue to
advance unless we deploy aggressive
extreme code design basically innovating
across all of the chips across the
entire stack all at the same time. which
is the reason why we decided that this
generation we had no choice but to
design every chip over again. Now every
single chip that we were describing just
now can be a press conference in all in
itself and there's an entire company
who's probably dedicated to doing that
back in the old days. Each one of them
are completely revolutionary and the
best of its kind.
The Vera CPU I'm so proud of it in a
power constrained world. Gray CPU is two
times the performance in a power
constrained world. It's twice the
performance per watt of the world's most
advanced CPUs. Its data rate is insane.
It was designed to process
supercomputers and Vera was an
incredible GPU. Grace was an incredible
GPU. Now Vera increases the single
threaded performance, increases the
capacity of the memory, increases
everything just dramatically. It's a
giant chip. This is the Vera CPU.
This is one CPU.
And this is connected to
the Reuben GPU. Look at that thing.
It's a giant chip. Now, the thing that's
really special, and I I'll go through
these. It's going to take three hands. I
think four hands to do this. Okay. So,
this is the Vera CPU. It's got 88 CPU
cores. And the CPU cores are designed to
be multi-threaded. But the
multi-threaded nature of of Vera was
designed so that each one of the 176
threads could get its full full
performance. So it's essentially as of
there's 176 cores but only 88 physical
cores. So these cores were designed in
in using a technology called spatial
multi-threading. But the IO performance
is incredible. This is the Reuben GPU.
It's 5x blackwell in floating
performance. But the important thing is
go to the bottom line. The bottom line
it's only 1.6 times the number of
transistors in black wall. That kind of
tells you something about the the levels
of semiconductor physics today. If we
don't do code design, if we do don't do
extreme code design at the level of
basically every single chip
across the entire system, how is it
possible we deliver performance levels
that is, you know, at best one point 1
1.6 times each year? Because that's the
total number of transistors you have.
And even if you were to have a little
bit more performance per transistor, say
25%, you're this impossible to get a
100% yield out of the number of
transistors you get. And so 1.6x kind of
puts a ceiling on how far performance
can go each year unless you do something
extreme. And we call it extreme code
design. Well, one of the things that one
of the things that we did and it was a
great invention. It's called MVF FP4
tensor core. The transformer engine
inside our chip is not just a 4bit
floatingoint number somehow that we put
into the data path. It is an entire
processor, a processing unit that
understands how to dynamically,
adaptively adjust its precision and
structure to deal with different levels
of the transformer so that you can
achieve higher throughput wherever it's
possible to lose precision and to go
back to the highest possible precision
wherever you need to. That ability to
dynamically do that. You can't do this
in software because obviously it's just
running too fast. And so you have to be
able to do it adaptively inside the
processor. That's what an MVF FP4 is.
When somebody says FP4 or FP8, it almost
means nothing to us. And the reason for
that is because it's the tensor core
structure in all of the algorithms that
makes makes it work. MVFP4, we've
published papers on this already. The
precision that the the level of
throughput and precision is able to
retain is in completely incredible. This
is groundbreaking work. I would not be
surprised that the industry would like
us to make this format and this
structure and industry standard in the
future. This is completely
revolutionary. This is how we were able
to deliver such a gigantic step up in
performance even though we only have 1.6
times the number of transistors. Okay.
So this is and now once you have a great
processing node and this is the
processor node and inside so this is
this is for example here let me do this.
This is this is wow it's super heavy.
You have to be a co in really good shape
to do this job.
Okay. All right. So, this thing is I'm
gonna guess this is probably I don't
know couple of hundred pounds.
[laughter]
I thought that was funny, too.
Come on. It could have been. Everybody's
gone. No, I don't think so.
All right. [clears throat]
So, so look at this. This is the last
one. We revolutionized the entire MGX
chassis. This node,
43 cables,
zero cables, six tubes,
z just two of them here. It takes two
hours to assemble this.
If you're lucky, it takes two hours. And
of course, you're probably going to
assemble it wrong. You're going to have
to retest it, test it, reassemble it. So
the assembly process is incredibly
complicated and it was understandable as
one of our first supercomputers that's
deconstructed in this way. This from 2
hours to 5 minutes
80% liquid cool.
100% liquid cool.
Yeah. Really really a breakthrough.
Okay. So, so this is the new compute
chassis and what connects all of these
to the top of rack switches, the east
west traffic is called the Spectrox
Nick. This is the world's best nick.
Unquestionably, Nvidia's Melanox, the
acquisition Melanox that joined us a
long time ago now. Um, this their
networking technology for high
performance computing is the world's
best bar none. the algorithms, the chip
design, all of the interconnects, all
the software stacks that run on top of
it, their RDMA, absolutely absolutely
bar none, the world's best. And now it
has the ability to do programmable RDMA
and data path accelerator so that our
partners like AI labs could create their
own algorithms for how they want to move
data around the system. But this is
completely world worldclass connect
X9 and the Vera CPU were co-designed and
we never revealed it. not never never
released it until CX9 came along because
we we co-designed it for a new type of
processor.
You know, Connect X9 or CX8 and Spectrum
X revolutionized how Ethernet was done
for artificial intelligence. Ethernet
traffic for AI is much much more
intense, requires much lower latency.
The the instantaneous surge of traffic
is unlike anything Ethernet sees. And so
we created Spectrum X which is AI
Ethernet.
Two years ago we announced Spectrum X.
NVIDIA today is the largest networking
company the world has ever seen. So it's
been so successful and used in so many
different installations. It is just
sweeping uh the AI landscape. The
performance is incredible especially
when you have a 200 um megawatt data
center or if you have a gigawatt data
center. These are billions of dollars.
Let's say a gigawatt data center is $50
billion dollars. If the networking
performance allows you to deliver an
extra 10%
in the case of Spectrum X, delivering
25% higher throughput is not uncommon.
If we were to just deliver 10% that's
worth $5 billion. The networking is
completely free, which is the reason
why, well,
everybody uses Spectrum X. It's just an
incredible thing. And now we're going to
invent a new type a new type of uh uh
data processing. And so spectral is for
east west traffic. We now have a new
processor called blue field 4. Blue
field 4 allows us to take a large large
very large data center isolate different
parts of it so that different users
could use different parts of it. Make
sure that everything could be
virtualized if they decide to be
virtualized. So you offload a lot of the
um virtualization software, the security
software, the networking software for
your north south traffic. And so
Bluefield 4 comes standard with every
single one of these compute nodes.
Bluefield 4 has a second application I'm
going to talk about in just a second.
This is a revolutionary processor and
I'm so excited about it. This is the
MVLink 6 switch
and
it's right here.
This is the this switch. This switchip
there are four of them inside the MVLink
switch here.
Each one of these switchips has the
fastest certis in history. The world is
barely getting to 200 gigabits. This is
400 gigabits per second switch. The
reason why this is so important is so
that we could have every single GPU talk
to every other GPU at exactly the same
time. This switch, this switch on the
back plane of one of these racks enables
us to move the equivalent of twice the
amount of the global internet data,
twice as all of the world's internet
data at twice the speed. You take the
cross-sectional bandwidth of the entire
planet's internet, it's about 100
terabytes per second. This is 240
terabytes per second. So it kind of puts
it in perspective. This is so that every
single GPU can work with every single
other GPU at exactly the same time.
Okay. Then on top of that
on top of that okay so this is one rack.
This is one rack. Each one of the racks
as you could see the number of
transistors in this one rack
is 1.7 times.
Yeah. Could you do this for me? So, this
is it's usually about two tons, but
today it's two and a half tons because
um when they shipped it, they forgot to
drain the water out of it.
So, we we shipped a lot of water from
California.
[clears throat]
Can you hear it squealing?
You know, when you're rotating two and a
half tons,
you're going to squeal a little.
Oh, you could do it. Wow.
Okay, we just we won't make you do that
twice. All right. So, so um so behind
behind this are the MVLink spines.
Basically, two miles of copper cables.
Copper is the best conductor we know.
And these are all shielded copper
cables, structured copper cables, the
most the world's ever used in computing
systems ever. and and um uh our certis
drive the copper cables from the top of
the rack all the way to the bottom of
the rack at 400 gigabits per second.
It's incredible. And so uh this has two
miles of total copper cables, 5,000
copper cables, and this makes the MVLink
uh spine possible. This is the
revolution that that really started the
NGX system. Now we we decided that we
would create an industry standard system
so that the entire ecosystem all of our
supply chain could standardize on these
components. There some 80,000
different components that make up this
these NGX systems and it's a total waste
if we're to change it every single year.
Every single major computer company from
Foxcon to Quanta to Wistron, you know,
the list goes on and on and on to HP and
Dell and Lenovo, everybody knows how to
build these systems. And so the fact
that we could squeeze Ruben, Vera Rubin
into this even though the performance is
so much so much higher and very
importantly the power is twice as high.
The power of Vera Rubin is twice as high
as Grace Blackwell. And yet, and this is
the miracle,
the air that goes into it, the the air
flow is about the same. And very
importantly, the water that goes into it
is the same temperature, 45° C. With 45°
C, no water chillers are necessary for
data centers. We're basically cooling
this supercomput with hot water. Is so
incredibly efficient. And so
this is um this is the new the new rack.
1.7 times more transistors but five
times more peak inference performance.
Three and a half times more peak um uh
uh training performance.
Okay.
They're connected on top using Spectrum
X. Oh, thank you.
This is this is the world's first
manufacturing chip using
uh TSMC's
new process that we co-inovated called
coupe. is a silicon photonix integrated
silicon photonix process technology. And
this allows us to take silicon photonix
directly right to the chip. And this is
512 ports at 200 Gbits per second. And
this is the new Ethernet AI switch, the
Spectrum X Ethernet switch. And look at
this giant chip. But what's really
amazing, it's got silicon photonics
directly connected to it. And lasers
come in
Lasers come in through here. Lasers come
in through here. The optics are here and
they connect out to the rest of the data
data center. This I'll show you in a
second, but this is on top of the rack.
And this is the new Spectrumax
um
Silicon Photonix switch. Okay.
And we have something new I want to tell
you about. So just as I mentioned a
couple years ago,
we introduced Spectrum X so that we
could reinvent the way that networking
is done. Um Ethernet is really easy to
manage and everybody has an Ethernet
stack and every data center in the world
knows how to deal with Ethernet. Um and
the only thing that we were we were
using at the time was called Infiniband
which is used for supercomputers.
Infiniband is very low latency. Um but
of course the software stack the entire
manageability of Infiniband is very
alien to the people who use Ethernet. So
we decided to enter the Ethernet switch
market for the very first time. Spectrum
X that just took off and it made us the
largest networking company in the world
as I mentioned. This next generation
Spectrum X is going to carry on that
tradition. But just as I said earlier AI
has reinvented the whole computing
stack, every layer of the computing
stack. It stands to reason that when AI
starts to get deployed in the world's
enterprises, it's going to also reinvent
the way storage is done. Well, AI
doesn't use SQL. AI use semantics
information. And when AI is being used,
it creates this temporary knowledge,
temporary temporary memory calls KV
cache, K key value combinations, but
it's a KV cache. Basically, the cache of
the AI, the working memory of the AI.
And the working memory of the AI is
stored in the HBM memory. Every single
token for every single token,
the H the GPU reads in the model, the
entire model, it reads in the entire
working memory and it produces one token
and it stores that one token back into
the KV cache. And then the next to the
next time it does that, it reads in the
entire memory, reads it and it streams
it through our GPU and then generates
another token. Well, it does this
repeatedly, token after token after
token. And obviously, if you have a long
conversation with that AI over time,
that memory, that context memory is
going to grow tremendously. Not to
mention, the models are growing, the
number of turns that we're using, the AI
are are increasing. We would like to
have this AI stay with us our entire
life and remember every single
conversation we've ever had with it,
right? Every single lick of research
that I've asked it for. Of course, we
the number of people that will be
sharing the supercomputers is going to
continue to grow. And so this context
memory which started out fitting inside
an HBM is no longer large enough. Last
year we created Grace Blackwell's
very fast memory. we called fast context
memory in that's the reason why we
connected grace directly to hopper
that's why we connected grace directly
to blackwell so that we can expand the
context memory but even that is not
enough and so the next solution of
course is to go off onto the network the
north south network off to the storage
of the company but if you have a whole
lot of AI running at the same time that
network is no longer going to be fast
enough so the answer is very clearly to
do it different. And so we intro we
created Bluefield 4 so that we could
essentially have a very fast KV cache
context memory store right in the rack.
And so I'll show you in just one second,
but there's a whole new category of
storage systems. And the industry is so
excited because this is a pain point for
just about everybody who does a lot of
token generation today. the AI labs, the
cloud service providers, they're really
suffering from the amount of network
traffic that's causing being caused by
KV cache moving around. And so the idea
that we would create a new platform, a
new processor to run the entire Dynamo
KV cache context memory management
system and to put it very close to the
rest of the rack is completely
revolutionary. So this is it. This is it
sits right here.
So this this is all the compute nodes.
Each one of these is MVLink 72. So this
is Vera Rubin MVLink 72.4
U Reuben GPUs. This is the context
memory that's stored here. Behind each
one of these are four blue fields.
Behind each blue field is 150 gigab 150
terabytes
150 terabytes of memory context memory.
And for each GPU once you allocate it
across each GPU will get an additional
16 terabytes. Now inside this node each
GPU essentially has one terabyte. And
now with this backing store here
directly on the same east west traffic
at exactly the same data rate 200
gigabits per second across literally the
entire fabric of this compute node.
you're going to get an additional 16
terabytes of memory. Okay. And this is
the management plane. These are these
are the spectrum X
switches that connects all of them
together.
And over here, these switches at the end
connects them to the rest of the data
center. Okay? And so this is the Vera
Rubin. Now there's several things that's
really incredible about it. So the first
thing that I mentioned is that the this
entire system is twice the energy
efficiency essentially the the twice the
the the temperature performance in the
sense that that even though the power is
twice as high the amount of energy use
is twice as high the amount of
computation is many times higher than
that but the liquid that goes into it
still 45 degrees C that enables us to
save about 6% % of the world's data
center power. So that's a very big deal.
The second very big deal
is that this entire system is now
confidential computing safe. Meaning
everything is encoded in transit at rest
and during compute and every single bus
is now encrypted. every PCI Express,
every MV link, every H you know for a MV
link between CPU me and GPU between GPU
to GPU, everything is now encrypted and
so it's confidential computing safe.
This allows companies to feel safe that
their models are being deployed by
somebody else, but it will never be seen
by anybody else. Okay? And so this
particular system is not only incredibly
energy efficient and there's one other
thing that's incredible
because of the nature of the workload of
AI it spikes instantaneously
with this computation layer called all
reduce the amount of current the amount
of energy that is used sp simultaneously
is really off the charts oftentimes
it'll spike up 25%. We now have power
smoothing across the entire system so
that you don't have to overprovision by
25 times or if you overprovision by 25
times you don't have to leave 25 times
25% 25% not 25 times 25% of the energy
um squandered or unused and so now you
could fill up the entire power budget
and you don't have to over you don't
have to proceed you don't have to
provision beyond that and then the Last
thing of course is performance. So let's
take a look at the performance of this.
These are only charts that people who
build AI super supercomputers would
love. It took exact it took every single
one of these chips complete redesign of
every single one of the systems and
rewriting the entire stack for us to
make this possible. Basically
this is training the AI model. This
first column, the faster you train AI
models, the faster you can get the next
frontier out to the world. This is your
time to market. This is technology
leadership. This is your pricing power.
And so in the case of the green, this is
essentially
a 10 trillion parameter model. We scaled
it up from deepse. That's why we call it
deep C++. A training a 10 trillion
parameter model on a 100 trillion
tokens. Okay. And that's this is our
simulation projection of what it would
take for us to build the next frontier
model. The next frontier model uh Elon's
already mentioned that the next version
of Grock Grock 5 I think is 7 trillion
parameters. This is 10 and in the green
is black well and here in the case of um
Reuben notice the throughput is so much
higher and therefore it only takes 1/4th
as many of these systems in order to
train the model in the time that we gave
it here which is one month. Okay. And so
time time is the same for everybody. Now
how much how fast you can train that
model and how large of a model you can
train is how you're going to get to the
frontier first. The second part is your
factory throughput.
Blackwell is green again. And factory
throughput is important because your
factory is in the case of a gigawatt is
$50 billion. A $50 billion data center
can only consume one gawatt of power.
And so if your performance, your
throughput per watt is very good versus
quite poor, that directly translates to
your revenues. Your revenues of your
data center is directly related to the
second second column. And in the case of
Blackwell, it was about 10 times over
Hopper. In the case of Reuben, it's
going to be about 10 times higher again.
Okay? And in the case of now the um the
cost of the tokens, how cost effectively
it is to generate the token. This is
Reuben about onetenth just as in the
case of Yep. [clears throat]
>> [applause]
>> So that's how this is how we're going to
get everybody to the next frontier
to um push AI to the next level and of
course to build these data centers
energy efficiently and costefficiently.
So this is it. This is Nvidia today. You
know, we mentioned that we build chips,
but as you know, Nvidia builds entire
systems now. And AI is a full stack. We
we're reinventing AI across everything
from chips to infrastructure to models
to applications. And our job is to
create the entire stack so that all of
you could create incredible applications
uh for the rest of the world. Thank you
all for coming. Have a great CES.
Now, Before [applause and cheering]
Before I Before I let you guys go, uh
there were a whole bunch of slides we
have to cut we had to leave on the
cutting floor and so we have some out
takes here. I think it'll be fun for
you. Have a great see us guys
and cut.
Nvidia live at CES. Take four. Marker
>> boom mic
action.
>> Sorry guys. Platform shift, huh?
>> That should do it.
>> And let's [music] roll camera.
>> A shade of green. A bright happy green.
>> World's most powerful AI supercomput you
can plug into the wall. next to my
toaster.
>> Hey guys, I'm I'm stuck again. I'm so
sorry.
>> This slide is never going to work. Let's
just cut it.
>> Hello. Can you hear me?
>> So, like [music] I was saying, the
router. Because not every problem needs
the biggest, smartest model. Just the
right one.
>> No, no, don't lose any of them. This new
six chip Reuben [music] platform makes
one amazing AI supercomputer.
>> There you go, little guy.
>> Oh no, no, not the scaling laws.
>> There is a squirrel on the car. Be ready
to make the squirrel [music] go away.
Ask the squirrel gently to move away.
>> Did you know the best models today are
all mixture of experts?
>> Hey
>> [music]
>> Where'd everybody go?
Hey,
hey,
hey. [music]
Hey.
Hey. Hey.